:
Thanks for having me again. I appreciate it. It's good to see everybody. My name is Justin Welsh, and I am gonna be going over a very simple presentation called Understanding LinkedIn. It's simple, but if you take what I put out in this presentation and you apply it, it generally works. I think most of social media is simplicity done well over a long period of time, versus trying to always figure out what sort of the big tricks or hacks are. So I've tried to keep this really simple based on my own personal experience. So let me just move in here. A couple of caveats that I think are helpful for sharing. I share what works for me. My goal is not to look up what works for the average person. I just tell my own story. What worked for me and what works for me may not work exactly for you. So I would highly recommend that you make it your own, right? That you take what you learn here and you apply it to your specific circumstance. I'm still figuring it out. So even though I've been on LinkedIn for about five years writing, I'm still learning new things every single day. Things that work, things that don't work, mistakes I've made, new tricks or techniques or whatever you wanna call them. Just because I say something doesn't mean it's right. I've said a million dumb things in my life and I will probably say a million more over the course of my time on this earth. So when I say something, don't take it as fact, just poke holes in it the same way that you would poke holes in anything else that you learn. I'll share some opinions that are backed on data. So things that I've done that you can look at the data and see that they were good decisions. Other things are just like, I think this is working well. So there's a few hunches kind of baked in here. And the last one is what I said at the beginning. There's like, sure, there are pods and there are a million different ways to hack growth and do things the wrong way. But I think doing things the right way is just to grow boring, just. can boring consistency over the long period of time. It's not the answer everyone wants, but I found it to be the most true. Even those who grow really fast, come into the game, get a pod, grow really fast. Like I don't think they actually reap the benefits or the outcomes of doing things slowly. So just a couple of caveats. The agenda, why should someone follow you setting up your profile? I won't read the bullet points. We'll just kind of dive right in. We'll start with, I think. The thing that's most important to me and the question that I ask myself, and this isn't LinkedIn specific, this is social media specific or real life specific, well, why should someone pay attention to you? I've been fortunate enough to grow to about 400,000 followers on LinkedIn, 350,000 on Twitter, and I like to think that people know why they're following me. I'm very specific, I'm very purposeful, I don't stray very much, so. I always ask myself, why should someone follow me? And so LinkedIn is pretty similar to Twitter in that regard. You have to have strong opinions. I think that just curating information from other people can be fine. And I see that working for some folks. And yeah, listicles, your 10 favorite websites, 10 favorite Chrome extensions, 10 favorite books, 10 favorite pieces of art, 10 favorite cities. Sure, that might get some people sharing and yes, people will get eyeballs on you, but... At the end of the day, like, what do you believe? What do you think? What does Daniel think? What does Renato think? What does Sean think? Like people like, what do you actually believe in that's inside here and here? That's why I choose to follow someone. So for example, I think people should challenge themselves to build a side project that could potentially turn into something that will at some point in their life allow them to lead their nine to five. Daniel believes that people should set up a portfolio of small bets. My wife, Jennifer, believes that successful women should learn to manage their own money and invest for retirement. We all have very strong opinions on the way that things should be done. And I generally don't share how other people think. I share how I think every day. So to me, growth on LinkedIn is an outcome of just clearly articulating how you think about things over a very long period of time. So I would kind of keep that front and center. That will be like a constant. throughout this presentation is you can get everything else right. But if you don't give people a reason to follow you, a strong opinion on some subject matter, it's much harder. These are more like tactical things, but I think they're important. So LinkedIn setting up your profile, the correct way is really important. Number one, like there's this big piece of real estate up here. And I know this will differ from, I think Daniel uses a forest, a background, right? And doesn't use that to promote anything, right? I like to use that big piece of real estate to promote something, to either shine a light on a problem my audience has, to shine a light on a solution that I have to that problem, a product, a newsletter, a reason to follow you. It's a big piece of real estate on LinkedIn. And I have found that whenever I put this particular picture, which it's not a great picture. I'm not a good designer, but it tells you where to go. If you want to do something, my sales of my course increases 30% and will decrease 30% if I take it away. And if I swap it out to sign up for my newsletter, that will increase by 30%. So I can- Do you think this is your main sort of place from where people get the course or it's a secondary one? It's interesting. So the operating system.co, the website that's featured there is the main place people buy it. This is almost like a secondary CTA because there's no action you can take against it. You can't click it and go somewhere. You'll see below, which I'm about to get to, there's another place that you can actually click and go. But just swapping this in and out, I can impact what behaviors people take. And it's pretty constant 30% difference, which is really interesting. I swapped it out the other day and I forgot. and my core sales went down. And I was like, my canceled, what happened? Like, did everyone forget about me? And then I was like, oh yeah, I swapped that out. So I'm gonna swap that back. So it's pretty crystal clear that it does impact. Headshots, like this isn't the lecture on headshots, but it's worth investing in one, I think. I think, you know, even if you don't have the money to go out and get a professional headshot, just throw it on portrait mode, have one of your friends take something. On LinkedIn, it's professional. And I think, you know, most of the folks who are growing on LinkedIn have high quality headshots. So I just pointed out much like on Twitter, right? This is sort of your bio, your sort of short bio, kind of like the short Twitter bio. Mine's simple. I just like to tell people who I am, what I'm working on and what they're gonna get if they follow me, right? So I'm building a portfolio of one person businesses towards 5 million in revenue. And if you follow me, you're going to get posts about audience and business growth. This is old, so it's changed since then. But generally I follow the same format. What am I doing? What am I working on? Why should you care? If I think those things line up with my content really effectively, I want people to read my content, come to my profile and say, oh, based on all the content that I've been reading of Justin, I am not surprised to see what he's working on and what I will get if I follow him. So those two things should be aligned. And I often see like people write about cryptocurrency and then I go to their profile and they're like, follow me for sales tips. Totally unaligned just doesn't make sense to me. And so this is an area to be very clear. I always say be clear, not clever or cute. And this is a really good opportunity to just be clear. I also see people like write very strange, long winded, clever, cutesy stuff that I read and I say, I don't even know what this person does. So there's no end to the following. A quick question, Justin, from the chat, on the profile pic, do you have an opinion about these realistic AI generation? low file headshots like that make you look like you, but they're not really, I don't know if you have a take. Yeah. Yeah, it's interesting. It used to be that if you used like a non you photo, LinkedIn was, I think, suspending people then. I think Jack Butcher got suspended for using like, I don't know. A clip to sing, yeah. But his was like, it wasn't like a fake picture. It was like, you could tell it wasn't him. It was like an art piece of artwork, right? I think they're, going away from that. Cause I know a lot of friends of mine who are creators on LinkedIn have AI photos. And I think that AI photos are probably going to be the next wave of like how people get headshots done. So I can't imagine, but I also don't know. This photo I'm much thinner and younger. So I probably need an updated photo and AI is probably the easiest way. So I'll probably do that at some point in time. Make sense. Thanks Justin. Cool. Below that is like this area that people miss a lot. So before I talk about this little kind of URL here, LinkedIn has two modes. It has normal mode, like classic legacy LinkedIn, and then it has what's called creator mode. And I'm not gonna tell you how to turn on creator mode, you can just Google turn on LinkedIn creator mode. And what it does is it reformulates your profile, it brings some of these hashtags to the front, which are, I think meaningless, but I try and pick ones that have lots of followings. And it brings this profile URL to the top. This is new as of about six months ago, you used to not have a place where you could share your website on LinkedIn until way further down on the profile, way below the fold. This is new, I see a lot of people not taking advantage of it, highly recommend taking advantage of it. It drives 1,800 visitors to that page every month for me. So like I just threw in a, what is it called? A UTM and a tracking code and I threw it on here and I was really surprised to see how much traffic that drives. So, highly recommend turning on creator mode and then turning on the link on your profile and sending it to your newsletter or your website or wherever you want people to go. The second place, this sort of secondary feature is below the fold and it's a nice section. It's called the featured section. And with clicking this plus button, you can add different types of content here. You can add popular posts, you can add links out. You can add images, you can add all sorts of different things here, right? Guides, whatever you want to add. I tinker with it a lot. So my general best practice is I like to think that my audience is in two areas. Those who have been following me for a long time and are ready to do something like buy a course of mine, or those who are just discovering me and want to learn a little bit more about my authority and expertise, which are folks who might enjoy my newsletter and aren't ready to buy a product. So often I'll have both a link to my newsletter and a link to my product. Right now I'm experimenting with only linking to my product because I'm focused more on Twitter and LinkedIn is more of a revenue stream for me. But I would highly recommend getting people something to do here where they can learn more about you. If you link to your most popular posts, there's nothing people can do with those things. They can click on them and see them, but they don't take anyone anywhere. So I never use it for popular posts. I wanna deplatform my followers from social media to email or products. That's my goal. It's a limit of two, Justin, that you could put here. It's not, I think there's a limit of eight. It's just what happens is if you do one, you get sort of a nice 16 by nine box. If you do two, they kind of split in squares like this. If you do more than two, they hang off the edge. I'm a big fan of like, This doesn't have nothing to do with LinkedIn. It's more just how people make decisions, but I'm a big fan of giving people limited decisions. I think there's a test where you give people 30 types of tea and they hardly buy and you give them three and they always make a choice. So I wanna give people as few choices as possible here. And so I use two, but I see people use three, four, six, eight, whatever. Makes sense. Cool. All right, the about section for me, This to me is almost like a website about section. I want to use this to add additional context to why people should pay attention to me. And I also use this as a sort of a brag, a brag book. So here I do a couple of things. I tell my story, my sort of founder story, which I talk a lot about, like my seven step founder story. I then share like my results, how many followers I have, what the business is looking like, things that get people to lean in because they're big numbers. And I want people to pay attention and to decide that I'm someone worth worth following. And then I'll often link to my courses, you know, as another opportunity for people who are reading that to go learn about a course or learn about my newsletter. But to me, this is like an area to brag. That's how I think about it. I'm not real great at like braggadocious self-promotion. Maybe people disagree with that, but I don't think I'm great at it. And it feels uncomfortable. But I like putting it in here because like I never see it. I forget that I wrote it and it's doing its work in the background, which I really like. All right, cool. Recommendations are really important. LinkedIn, from my understanding, like I have a few friends that work there, and from my understanding, these have a lot of impact on how often you come up in search results, how often your content is shown. They kind of look at it as like a little vote of confidence for your brand. And so I try and get as many recommendations as possible. One thing that I do as someone with a lot of followers, I like to surprise people. So like once a week, I'll just drop. a random person who's been interacting with me online, a recommendation, and without asking, they generally reciprocate. And so it's a really great way to get recommendations is just to be the recommendation sort of fairy and go out and surprise people with recommendations when they're least expecting it. That's worked really well for me over, you know, the course of many years. Cool. So that's all like very basic stuff. And probably a lot of you know how to build a social media profile, but I thought it would be helpful just to share some, some of the ways that I think about it. Let's talk about X110. So LinkedIn is a lot different than Twitter. I'm comparing it to Twitter because I'm just assuming Daniel that since you're more active on Twitter, a lot of these folks are probably Twitter users more than they are LinkedIn. But LinkedIn is very different. We all know Twitter has 280 characters. When I wrote this, they hadn't extended it to be longer yet. But let's just work under the assumption that Twitter is still a 280 character limit platform. Whereas LinkedIn has 3000 character limit. So every LinkedIn post is kind of like, it has the option to be a Twitter thread, right? They are similar in length sometimes to Twitter threads. Some sort of like, when you think about writing, think about what's above the fold in LinkedIn. So on Twitter, when you see a tweet, you see the whole thing. If you see a thread, you see the opening tweet to the thread. On LinkedIn, every post in your feed is like a Twitter thread. You only see the first 300 characters. So much like a Twitter thread, you have to be very compelling in the first 300 characters, much more so than you do in the last 2700 characters that you write if you choose to max out the character limit. On LinkedIn, there is a see more button, which there is not on Twitter. So you see those first 300 characters, and then if you like it, you click the see more button. And by doing that, you're telling the algorithm that you're finding whatever this content is valuable. And generally, if you can get people to click the see more button, you're going to get them to the bottom of your content and hopefully leave a reaction or a comment. I have found that with that in mind, that there are sort of five content styles and four content outcomes that work really well on LinkedIn. So I'll kind of share what those are. The first one in that works the best, in my opinion, is a story. So you all have probably at some point in your lives come across somebody who's told you a variation of this comment, LinkedIn sucks, right? Someone has said something similar to you in LinkedIn's cringy, it's so boring, it's so lame, it's so whatever, right? A lot of those things might be true. I think it gets that rap because people tell a lot of long-winded stories. very safe stories, very professional stories, but I have found that stories work really well. And I generally build my stories using a five-step copywriting method. It's a take on an old copywriting method called pain agitate solution. And I have turned that into pain, amplify, intrigue, positive future solution. So I generally will open up a story on LinkedIn. I recommend this on any piece of content you write on LinkedIn. A short, compelling, grass is not the right word. I'm trying to think of the right word. Just like a statement, a sentence that punches the reader in the face. That's like how I think about it. Is every first sentence of my LinkedIn post should feel like a punch to the face. This first, this example is not a great example of that. but I try and make it feel painful for either I'm describing pain of myself that my readers can relate to or I'm describing a pain that my readers feel very familiar with. So for example here, when I built my own business, I almost burned out for the second time. It's a pain statement. Then I will amplify or agitate that pain. I will twist the knife, make it existential, try to make the reader really feel the pain that I'm writing about. And I want them to lean in and say, yes, I also feel similar pain, right? If I can speak the reader's pain back to them, I believe I'm doing a good job of connecting with the reader. After that, I will drop something intriguing. After I've described the pain, I'm like, I figured something out that's pretty darn intriguing. And by figuring this intriguing thing out, something changed for me. And then I'll paint the positive future, right? So I'll take all the pain that I just said, say, hey, I figured something intriguing out. And here's how my life has changed. Here's what my future looks like more positively. And then I'll present the solution. And the solution could be as simple as subscribe to my newsletter so you don't miss this article. Go buy my course if you don't wanna miss this lesson, right? So pain, amplify, intrigue, positive future solution. I tell a story usually every Monday. It's the highest engaged content and it's the highest day of engagement on LinkedIn. So I like to combine kind of story Mondays. Number two, and by the way, I'll give you like a cheat code is an overly used cliche, but like a way to think about making content more quickly is once I tell a story, I'll take that same topic, whatever I told a story about, and I'll ask myself a question. During that story, what's an observation that you made? And I will just turn the story into or turn that topic into an observation. So I'll just say, here's a weird observation I made during that story that I was telling and during that topic, right? Then I'll think about that story and that topic and say, what's a contrarian take that I have on that subject matter? What's something that I believe that other people commonly don't believe or is against a best practice or the thought leadership in the space? And I'll just write that piece of content about the same topic. Then I'll say past versus present. Let's take that same topic. What did it look like to be really good, bad, you know, collaborative with that topic five years ago? And what does it look like to be good at that topic today? Or I'll do present versus future. What does it look like to be good at this topic today versus what do I think it's gonna look like to be good at this topic in the future? Or bad at this topic or how will this topic change? Or, you know, there's a million ways that you can do comparison. And so like, here's a simple post. My life in 2018, five bad things. My life in 2022, five good things. What changed? I went all in on myself and my business. One of the easiest pieces of content I've ever written, almost three quarters of a million impressions on LinkedIn, LinkedIn is simple. Keep it simple, don't try and get too complex. It is really common, simple content that resonates and works. Justin, I'm noticing something there. You seem to have reacted to your post. Is that something, is that some trick or something, or is it? It's not, it's like this weird, back when I had like 2000 followers, someone was like, you should do this thing, it works. And so I started doing it and I've written 4,000 things. And like by now it's like a, what do you call it, superstition? Oh, interesting, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So like I'll post something, I'll post something my wife will like it. She has 130,000 followers. I'll like it with my business account and then I'll like it off of myself. It's just really stupid. It's probably meaningless. It means like absolutely nothing, but I do it out of habit and like I'm afraid to break the street. Yeah, yeah. No, no, it makes sense. Like baseball players wearing like the same underwear every time they like play a World Series game. Exactly. All right. And then last is like a listicle. When I write yuck, by the way, it's raining here. I live in the mountains. So Daniel, if my power goes out, I'm sorry. You'll be nowhere to contact me. But a listicle I write yuck because I think listicles are overdone. But every once in a while, when I'm not feeling creative or up to the task of writing something interesting, I'll write a boring listicle, right? And they do. very well. So take whatever topic I was writing about and say, Hey, what are eight tools, eight observations, eight pieces of advice, eight lessons, eight methods, eight whatever, right? And just write something about that topic. What I love to do is pick a topic, push it through those five lenses, then do it again. And in one day, I can write 10 pieces of content and then stagger them out over the next 10 weeks. Like if you do that every day in 10 days, you have 100 pieces almost two months worth of content. Post once a day, you've got three months worth of content. It's pretty easy like hack for writing lots and lots and lots of content. Cool. Here are four outcomes on the back of those that I think are really important for keeping in mind. Number one is educate me. So like, I think I was able to build my following on LinkedIn, the most common feedback that I hear from my reader is like, you make complex things seem really simple. So I assume that everybody on LinkedIn, I don't mean this to sound mean or to make it sound funny. I assume everyone learns like a fourth grader. So I'm like, how can I explain this complicated topic to someone who's in fourth grade? And if I do that effectively, I think it will resonate with the audience. They wanna learn how to do something complicated or meaningful in the simplest way, right? The mom test, you know, would my mom understand it? So educating people is really helpful. Inspiration is huge on LinkedIn. It's why it gets sort of that cringey sort of thing. It's not Twitter, it's not mean, it's not trolling, it's not divisive, it's not angry, it's like highly inspiring, cheesy, cheery, those are all words that describe LinkedIn. So if you tell a story, inspire people, people love that shit. It gets spread like wildfire, people repost it. The cool thing about LinkedIn is, there's such a heavy skew, there's so many people on the platform and so few of them are actually creating content. And so many of them are consuming content. And so when you create stuff like this, that's naturally a story. Like my 70 year old mother is an accidental internet entrepreneur. When I wrote that first line, I'm like, this is gonna fucking smash. Like I knew that this post was gonna go wild when I wrote it, cause I was like, people love this stuff. It's true story. And I was like, oh, this is gonna be great. And like a bunch of people shared it cause it was inspiring. And I was like, Always remember to inspire people through stories. People love that on LinkedIn. Challenge me. So like, I love taking like a take on, like here's a marketing take, stop forcing people to bargain for your free information. Like kind of shooting my shot at like lead magnets and marketing gurus and things like that. I love to challenge people softly and gently on LinkedIn. That generally works really well. So. You know, you want to educate, you want to inspire, you want to challenge. And then last is like empathy. LinkedIn's a huge empathy platform. So, you know, you can empathize with someone's plight. If you can empathize with, you know, someone who doesn't have it as well, you know, or someone's a challenging situation, that stuff is always gonna land really well on LinkedIn. And again, it's a very safe, very professional platform. So there's not a lot of trolling sometimes, but not a lot. Cool. I'll stop there, Daniel. And should I take questions or should I keep going or? Couple of questions if you don't mind, Justin. One of them somewhat off topic, but I think it came up maybe while I'm translating. LinkedIn premium, do you use it? Do you think it's worth it? What does it give people? Yeah, I do use LinkedIn premium. What does it give people? Well, I like to think that spending 70 bucks a month is like giving me a better shot at... staying in the good places. We're just paying the dollars a month on Twitter, right? So I'm happy. Yeah, same thing. Yeah, yeah. It's my business. I'm like, I'll keep this as a business cost. What you actually get is like an opportunity to do more effective DMs. So if you don't have a premium account, it's really hard to like send messages to people, I think. You only get like a certain amount. I don't really know all the differences, but I'm sure someone can Google it. But the reason that I use it is because I... It's part of my business and I want to give myself the best shot as being in the highest prices. So that's why I do it. Makes sense. Yeah. Same argument with Twitter. Blue, I think if you're serious on Twitter, pay the ad box. Alejandro is asking, do you think LinkedIn lends itself to any kind of product service or some things that are off limits in LinkedIn, like quit your job encouragement and so on and so forth? Like, do you see anything that would never work on LinkedIn? I hope not because like that's my whole game. So I don't think so. No. I think LinkedIn is becoming much more of a creator platform and less of a professional platform. And I think they're also leaning very heavily into the creator space. So to give you some sense, they rolled out creator profiles, which I told you about earlier, turn those on. They built creator team. They've launched creator newsletters. They have a creator program where they're giving people $15,000 scholarships or grants from being a part of the program. Like they are definitely investing in becoming a creator driven platform. So I don't think things are off limits. I mean, I think you wanna be, I think you wanna tread more carefully on like political stuff. LinkedIn is a very, what's the best word to use? LinkedIn is a very heavily left leaning company. And I don't say that in a negative or positive. I don't bring politics into things. But if you say mean things about people who, you know, they wanna be included, you're probably gonna get in trouble for that. So I would stay away from that kind of behavior on LinkedIn. I just think it's, I mean, I don't do that behavior anyway, but I would stay away from it if that's part of your shtick. Yeah, makes sense. Just one quick question. If you can move, if you can rewind to the listicle slide for a second. Sweaty was asking about point number eight. Where was it? There it is. Point eight, lack of business systems. I think Swati is asking, what's the reason behind that? No, I misunderstood. My question was really when Justin said he like writes eight significant things. Oh, sorry, sorry, I misunderstood. Why does he choose only eight as the number? in his listicle. Oh, it was just an example. I do seven, 10, 15. Oh, OK. OK. OK, thank you. I was just saying, whenever I come across a listicle, people are always like, the only listicles they seem to be able to think of are tools when they're relating to a topic. But there's also lessons, advice, methods, quotes, books, whatever. I just don't love listicles, but yeah, 8 was just an example. Makes sense, makes sense. One final question, Justin. Sure. Elam is asking, I noticed lots of creators have been mentioning that their LinkedIn reach has decreased significantly. Is it still true that LinkedIn lacks content or that it has changed, especially with the issues on Twitter? Like, do you see anything that has changed recently, positive or negative? Yeah, I think reach has gone down. I think more people are coming onto the platform and seeing like, for a long time, it was a hidden platform. I like to think I was one of the kind of more like Twitter. And then I started talking a lot about it, I think on social media and that brought some Twitter followers over and then that message kind of amplified and amplified. Now you got, I think, a lot of people coming onto the mix. So I don't know if it's like a big change in the algorithm or if it's just more options out there in the market for people to pay attention to. I don't really, I don't think about it all that much. You know, Twitter shifted their algorithm, what, three or four months ago, and all of a sudden everything I wrote was like, whoa, she used to have a thousand, now it has a hundred. And that was surprising. But my take on that is like, what are you gonna do? You know, like, besides being an algorithm detective, which I think sounds really boring, like trying to snoop around and figure out all the different changes every time that something happens, my whole thought on LinkedIn and Twitter both is just like, continue to write effective content. Like... write good, valuable quality stuff, and it will find people and people will find it. But I definitely see a decrease, but like my following is still growing as fast as it ever has, my business is still growing. So impressions, yeah. Valuable quality followers, connections, and customers, not so much. That makes sense. To find the question now, if I can continue. Jen is asking, or Yan, sorry. You don't seem to have a lot of visuals in your posts. Is there a reason? Do you prefer text over images? I do. I like to write. I don't do any video because I don't like turning the camera around to myself. And to me, the biggest winning thing you can do on social media is show up every day. And as soon as I put friction in between showing up on the platform, I think I have a much greater chance of being less... consistent. And so I stick with what I like to do, which is writing. Coming back to visuals, I'm not a super good visual person. So I don't design well. I don't have an eye for design, nothing on the walls of my house, right? Like, uh, I don't know how to do that very effectively. If tomorrow, I met the world's greatest visual designer and they wanted to design visuals for my posts, I would totally be open to that. Um, I'm just so busy that like, I don't think about it as a, a top priority for me, but I know visuals are working well. So often what I'll do in lieu of being a good designer or having someone to work with is I'll take screenshots of my tweets. It counts as an image in LinkedIn. They get really good impressions. And so I do that. If I put something on Twitter and it does well, I screenshot it, I put it on LinkedIn the next day. Sounds good. Yeah. Perfect. Okay. If you're a designer, design great stuff though, for sure. All right. Writing Effective Copy. All right, cool, we talked a little bit about this. So the first 300 characters is what LinkedIn shows on the feed before a button that says see more. And the goal was really to entice readers to click see more. I think about kind of three things. Get them to click see more. Once they click see more, they're committed to at least continuing to read the post. Make the post compelling enough to get them to the end and then give them something to do when they get to the end that makes it easy for them to participate in the conversation. That's all you want people to do is participate in the conversation. That's what helps on LinkedIn. So here's a formula that I like to use. The first line that I like to use is something I call the scroll stopper. The goal is stop the scroll. People are scrolling 300 feet on their phone every single day. So how can you get them to stop? And the way that I think about this line is almost not clickbaity, because you don't want to clickbait people into clicking see more. But I think about it like an email subject line. Like the email subject lines. one of two lines, you have to get an email to open, you got the subject line and the preview text, but the subject line is what generates high or low open rates. So I think about that first line on LinkedIn as my email subject line. So here's using that post, right? If you got a post and you are an email from me and you liked my content, you followed me for a long time, and you knew I talked about entrepreneurship, I like to think my 70 year old mother is an accidental internet entrepreneur is a great email subject line, as much as it is a good opener. or a LinkedIn post. So I kind of use this scroll stopping line. And then line two is where I try and make a kind of a call. I either wanna do emotional connection, like generate a connection with my audience. I wanna show some empathy, but really all I care about doing is getting people to the next line. Right, that's all I care about is getting people to that third line. So I think of this like the email preview text, right? So... This isn't a perfect example, but this is connecting with my audience, this is empathy. If she can do it, anyone can do it. It's a throwaway line. It's meant to really just be like, kind of get to that third line, empathy, understanding, we're all in this together kind of line. And then the hook line. And the hook line has one job. And the job of the hook line is to get the reader to click Seymour, right? All I want people to think is, if you just click that Seymour button, I'm gonna pull the curtain open and you're gonna get all the information that I just promised. So I think about this like a radio teaser before a commercial. So we've all listened back in the day probably to radio, right, where they're like heading to commercial and they're like, you know, this food is poisoning one out of every four children who eat it. We'll talk about that next after the break. And you're like, shit, you have kids, you gotta pay attention, right? So I think of like that teaser line, that hook line as like a radio commercial. So this one's pretty simple. Here's the story, right? I've used much more compelling hook lines, but you kind of get the gist. It's like email opener connection or get people to the next line and then tell people there's something behind the curtain if they just click this Seymour button. That's what I want people to do. It's all I care about. Cool. That's one thing, by the way, images work very well. Paracels work very well. You probably see a lot of people on LinkedIn using what's called carousels. It's like, PDF after PDF after PDF. Most people doing really well with those are paying people lots of money to design those. I think when you're starting out, that's a foolish spend. I think you should learn how to write. You should learn how to connect. You should learn how to sell. You should learn how to, you know, general copywriting before you go start paying people 10 grand a month to create beautiful carousels. Go learn how to be interesting online before you, you know, take it to the next level. That's my thought. Cool. Believe it or not, up until about six months ago or maybe 10 months ago, LinkedIn did not have a notification bell like Twitter. So like, if you like my content, you just had to hope you find it. You couldn't like click a bell and pay attention. You can do that now. So I highly recommend this, my wife's profile. If you click this little bell right here, you'll see, you'll be notified about all new posts from Jennifer. If you click it a second time, it'll say, you'll be notified of top posts by Jennifer. So like there's some threshold that says, you either wanna be notified by all or by a post that reached some impression threshold. So what I do is I have my friends on LinkedIn who I've gotten to know over the last four years. And I support like probably four other creators, right? Dan Goh is a buddy of mine, Austin Belsack is a buddy of mine and like. I turn on their stuff and when they post every day, I go and I show them my support, right? I think it's a lot easier than being in some 200 person pod where everyone's just writing the same bullshit on each other's posts and just, or clicking retweet and seeing someone's feed full of a hundred retweets, I don't understand that. Build your own little support network, just like I see Daniel supporting people like, I think Tony from Black Magic and other folks like that, just folks you get to know over the course of being on the internet, right? So I highly recommend that. And then if you do that, like what I try and do is I try and get to someone's post really fast. So if Sahil Bloom posts something, right, as a friend of mine who's growing really fast on LinkedIn, I know he generally posts pretty quickly in the morning. So I try and get to his post when I see it come out, write something halfway intelligent. And if I can do that, I'll generally become the most relevant comment. Like there's all kinds of tricks and hacks you can do here, right? like your own comments, switch to your business account, drop a clap, switch to your other business account, drop a heart, whatever. There's a million different things you can do to stand out as a comment, but like the best thing you can do is write something smart. It's like write something interesting. All those hacks and tricks come later, but like finding big creators, myself, Sahil, Dan Goh, whomever, Dan Coe, whoever, in getting to their posts when they come out and writing something intelligent. literally can pick up thousands of followers a month, just doing that, same way you do it on Twitter. When I started in Twitter in October of 2021, I had 4,000 followers and I commented on a lot of Daniel's posts and other people who I thought, you know, would be relevant to what I wanted to write about. Quick question, Justin, on this, because I noticed on Twitter, there are some accounts who are growing almost without writing on their timeline at all. They just reply really well, and they sort of, people get to know them, and they basically reply guys. Does it work on LinkedIn as well? Like, would you be a, yeah, really? 100%, I'll give you an example. There's a guy, Ryan Sullivan, and he creates a little bit of content, but not all that much. He hosts a, his business is, he does like hosting a podcast. So if you have a podcast, he'll get you all set up, right? He'll do all the heavy lifting and you just sort of record it. Uh, and he has this style of, of commenting. That's really smart. It's kind of like, he almost comments in a post style where he like makes a compelling opening line and then he's like, uh, want to know more about that? Here's my story with an arrow and then he'll like eight bullets and then like DM me if you need any help. And every day that I post. he writes this smart comment, which I'm sure he copies and pastes, edits a little bit and then clicks post. And I jumped on a call with him the other day and he said, I've landed more clients and grown by thousands of followers just by writing this same comment on like 10 people's accounts every morning. And I take, I encourage people to DM me for free. They do. I take that to a discovery call and I sell my $10,000 a month podcasting service. Fascinating. Yeah. Yeah. Because I think some people feel more comfortable to reply rather than post something yourself original. There's something daunting sometimes that's when you have to post something original whereas when you're replying, it feels easier. Yeah, it's definitely easier than writing, right? I'm just wondering if I can show... Yeah, I'll just give you this quick example here that I think is super helpful. Hold on a second. All right, where's my pen? to, there it is. Can you see this? Yep. Cool. So here's like something I wrote today and here's a friend of mine, Eddie Schlener. Like you can tell that this is probably a pre-written comment. Like I wrote, I don't know, some pieces of advice, right? And he's like, here's some learnings about writing and creativity of mine. He obviously wrote like 12 learnings about writing and creativity. And anytime he sees a listicle post about lessons learned or something, he probably just goes to that post and says, oh, here's 12 things I've learned about being a copywriter for four years. And you can see he's got 24 engagements on this comment in five hours. That will drive probably a ton of views to his profile, a ton of views to his very good copy newsletter, so on and so forth. He just probably has a basket of high quality replies that he can go to over and over and over. Smart. Very interesting. Yeah, cool. I'll get back to this presentation. Okay, cool. Let's talk about do's and don'ts. Do's, this first one is a hunch for me. It's like post in the morning. LinkedIn seems to be busy in the morning, really going when people are up early or when they first get to work and they're trying to put off doing work. It's when people seem to be most active on the platform. Do help teach and educate. People love learning stuff. A friend of mine, Jake Ward, I'll give you an example story of why I think this platform is so powerful, okay? There's a guy, Jake Ward, he's a young guy, he's probably 25 or 26, graduated university and built his own website business where he was building SEO articles for sites that he was buying. So he was acquiring domains and writing new SEO optimized articles and then flipping those domains, right? Smart business model. He did it enough where he became really good at SEO. And then he went to LinkedIn about a year ago and started writing an SEO tip every day. How to get an article to rank higher, how to rank for long tail keywords, how to write technical SEO. I don't know much about SEO, so I'm probably getting it all wrong. But like, I was like, oh, this is interesting. I want to do SEO someday because I get most of my traffic from social media and I'd love to get more from organic. And like after following Jake for six months, I made this assumption that he knows exactly what he's doing because he writes so much high quality stuff. Jump on the phone with him, chatted with him, seems competent, seems smart. And like, we'll probably end up spending $75,000 with him in the next six months to help do a bunch of SEO optimization and asset creation stuff for me, right? Like that's how easy it is to win like a big contract if you can show your expertise and authority in a particular niche subject. Pretty incredible, I think. Sorry, that was a tangent, but I thought it was helpful. Cool. Number three, focus on your formatting. Just like Twitter, it's just like, content's king, format's queen. You have to make sure your format's really easy to read. Let big, bold, boisterous lines stand out on their own. Keep dense information in bullet point format. Try and make it easy to read. I think a lot of people forget about that. Spend some time engaging. It's the most friendly, safe platform. So engaging with people is really simple. You can build a lot of close friends and people who really respect your content. I try and comment on three to five other people's posts every day just to get my name and face out there. You know, what's really cool is when you comment on a post, your tagline is underneath your name. So it's a constant marketing boy, right? Like your name and what you do is always out there on every comment that you leave. So it's a great way to drive traffic. I like to leverage the LinkedIn newsletter at 15K followers. Arbitrary number doesn't matter, by the way, don't get stuck on that number. It's not like 14, 999 matters. But LinkedIn will market your newsletter one time. So if you have 15,000, 20,000, 30,000 followers and you start a LinkedIn newsletter, when someone goes to their notifications tab, that will come up as a notification. Daniel Vassallo has launched his newsletter, subscribe here. So... Doing it with more followers is just an easier way to scoop up more subscribers at the beginning. And then use your featured section and comments to call people to action. LinkedIn doesn't love links in posts, just like Twitter doesn't. I know Daniel, you have written about that quite a bit, but LinkedIn really does reduce impressions by about 60%. There's a good trade-off. You get a much higher click-through rate when you put a link in your post. So it's six and one half. I can't really tell if it's a bad thing. But if you're new and you want to get impressions, keep links out, drop your links in the comment and say like, you know, links in the comment below if you're interested. It's an easy way to not hinder your impressions. Don't talk politics. There's actually a button on LinkedIn where you can mute people because you don't like their political content. So you can click a button on the content and say, this is political and I don't want to see it. And that's like a ding against you more so than a vote up. So I just highly recommend keeping it out. Don't troll or be unprofessional. Like go for it if you want. It's your brand, not mine. But I think it's the wrong platform for that, especially because like, if you say something mean, the platform's pretty friendly, you will get mobbed up on. And like, maybe that's the kind of attention that you're looking for. It's not for me, but I think it's strange. Use a fake picture avatar. That's being updated. So like, I think AI is gonna be fine, but like an avatar of a robot will probably get you suspended, which is really strange to say. Don't open up a bunch of profiles at one time. Please for the love of God. It's a stupid thing, but like people open up 30 profiles at once and they have 30 tabs. And LinkedIn thinks you're using a scraping software and they shut your account down. It's happened to so many people and they come to me and they're like, hey, I got an email saying that I opened too many profiles, I'm scraping profiles. Do you think this is cause I'm using Shield Analytics? No, it just told you in the email what you were doing. Please stop doing it. It's not like a hidden trick. Just don't look at a bunch of profiles. Don't forget a banner image and headshot. Don't be unclear or cute about what you do. Just be clear. I think it's the easiest way to land more customers. And then use, and don't use your featured section to feature your best performing posts. Cool, helpful tools. Shield, I just mentioned it. I love Shield. I just think it's the easiest way to store every post I've ever had. Just Connects, it stores every single post. You can sort by impressions, likes, comments, whatever. I use the tagging feature. So when I have a post that does really well, I tag it as repurpose. And I'll go find stuff from six months ago and just repurpose it. I repurpose all the time. And Shield is the easiest way to keep track of things, to see what's working. Are images working for me? Are videos working? Is text working for me? You can sort by all those different things. It's like 10 or 15 bucks a month. I think if you're gonna get serious about LinkedIn, it's the best analytics tool out there. It's a shame that LinkedIn doesn't have native analytics very well, but I don't think Twitter does either. So Shield is the best option. I don't use Publer anymore. I use Taplio, but Publer is a good scheduling tool. It's real simple, it's real cheap. It's real easy to use. I use Taplio, T-A-P-L-I-O now. It's real expensive. It's 90 bucks a month. has a lot of built-in features. I like TiBo who built it, so I use it mostly because I just want to support him. But a bunch of good publishing tools. I think publishing tools are the way to go, because I hate, I just like to be, I'm real anal about content, so I like to have it all scheduled out for many months. And then my course, Shameless Self Promotion. You can buy my course, I think Daniel has 40% off. It's called the LinkedIn Operating System. It's got 13,000 students. It's widely considered the best course out there. And that's it. Coupon code small. I don't even know if that works anymore. If they just go to your website, Daniel, and just buy it from wherever they want. Yes, yes, people can go to smallbytes.co and there's the link. So thanks for the discount. I think many people have already bought it already. So let me see. First of all, thank you, Justin. Always, always great content. You always inspire me to go back to LinkedIn. So hopefully at some point. So easy with your Twitter content. You're freezing, man. It's all, it's, you know, it's, I think my biggest problem is, um, LinkedIn is, I still haven't gotten into the habit of opening the LinkedIn app like daily. Right. So I need to somehow force myself a little bit to remind myself that it exists. But, but I agree, like the little bit that I used it, like very quickly, I grew to 5,000 followers within a couple of months. And, uh, and I agree with you, like the, the, the amount of engagement and. impressions that I got. And they seem to be a different population than the one that is on Twitter, right? Which is another interesting thing. Like I'm sure there's some overlap but the overlap seems to be minimal. Like there's people who seem to be on LinkedIn who don't even know that Twitter almost exists. Like it's not in their world which I think it's one of the underrated things. And I also think like, if you're building a business, right? Especially if you're a B2C business like my friend Ryan who does podcast hosting, man, the reach is so crazy. Every time you post, if you have even 10,000 followers, you might get 10,000, 15,000 impressions. If you're selling a $10,000 service, all you need is one person who wants to do podcasting. People on LinkedIn are generally employed. They make a living, they want to invest in themselves. It's a great opportunity if you have a service or a product. I mean, I know people doing six figure businesses 20,000 followers on the side while they work a full-time job. It's pretty crazy. Yeah. Absolutely. So I'm going to read a few questions. So I'm going through the chat. Let me see the first one. Do you think about emojis and the content? Interesting question. Do emojis work on LinkedIn? I don't know. It's not my style. I think about it this way. You know, like if you go to Vegas, they have Vegas lights and lasers, or if you go in front of like a car dealership with one of those wacky inflatable things, like if you have to do that shit to get people to pay attention to you, then your words don't matter. I want my words to stand out on their own. And I think emojis are like Vegas lights and lasers or like the wacky inflatable doll. It's like, look at me, look at me over here, big red X's, smiley faces, cash icons. I just want my words to do the talking. And so for me, I don't use them. Lots of people love them. Mm-hmm, makes sense. Skyler is asking, how much proofreading do you do to make sure the tone and the language is what you want? Or at this point, is it just second nature for you that you don't need much of you? A really good question. At this point, it's pretty second nature. I might skim it to be like, could any of this be misconstrued? Because I've certainly been misconstrued before as we all have. But for the most part, it's second nature. But when I started four and a half years ago, it took me a long time to write a piece of content. And I like to push buttons without being divisive or mean. Like I'm not a mean-spirited person as a human. So I generally am not divisive, mean, cruel, nasty. But I like to push buttons a little bit, but I always go back and look through and say like, hey, can anyone take this as being really cruel or mean? And if so, then I take it out. Makes sense. Are you crafting many new? pieces of content on a daily basis? Like now, are you mostly reusing? Like are you in that state now where you're primarily reusing things? Yeah, I'm mostly reusing, yeah. I mean, I'd say it's 60, 40 repurposed new. It's cool, like every day, every week, I gain 3,000 new followers who have never seen my content. Because LinkedIn doesn't do a good job of showing it to all your followers, like 50% of people were following me last time and never saw it. And then the other... 20% probably forgot it. Every once in a while, someone would be like, I remember this. It's like, congratulations. Yeah, yeah. Do you modify things? Do you modify things or are you just the purpose, word for word? No, I edit things sometimes. And other times I just like, if I have a post that does like 10 million impressions, I will leave it as is, cause I'm like, this is not broken. Don't edit it. Other posts I'm like, oh, I thought this was better. Like I thought this was a good message. And it didn't resonate the way that I thought it would. So I might just tinker with that and say, oh, can I make this more compelling? Because I think the message inside is really good. But I'm starting to do more new content. I was burned out there for a while. I wasn't super creative. But one really cool hack you can do, and I'm not a big like hack guy, but I create an Excel sheet and every day I paste my content in. And then I use another tab with formulas built in that push that content out 182, 365 and 547 days. So like everything I'm creating today is fueling the fire of the future. And then when I look in the future, I can pick and choose content that went, did really well. And I have like a greatest hits collection. Yeah. Shane has a good question, which I think it says, and it's with me a lot. Like he's saying, I find link when I open LinkedIn, I find it. de-energizing every time I logged in? Is it just me, a problem of cultivating my connections followers? So is there something else I should say? And I think this is interesting because I actually think this is my main problem with LinkedIn, like I'm not a good consumer of the feeds. Like Twitter, I enjoy it. Like even if I wasn't building an audience there, I would log in because I like scrolling to it. Like it's the type of content I like, which I know LinkedIn for some reason, I never really managed to stick to me. And I wonder if I'm doing something wrong. with my feed, like maybe I'm following the wrong people. Or maybe, because I think I remember you saying Justin, that you don't even bother with the feed, if I'm not mistaken, right? Is that still the case? Yeah, I don't read the feed. But there's a reason why, like I think if you think through it, it becomes kind of self-explanatory, which is like Twitter's a free for all, it's public discourse. So you can talk about anything. LinkedIn is like... I'm a product manager at Microsoft. And here are five things I do to product manage products better as a product manager. And it's like, that's not interesting. Nobody cares unless you're a product manager, right? Or like, hey, SDR is a real hard job. Here are 10 opening call scripts. And I'm like, I don't work in that industry anymore. I don't care. So like most of it is very specific. So like, if you're an SDR, which is a salesperson, for those of you who don't know the acronym, like who makes outbound phone calls all day, you're kind of entry-level salesperson. Like... you might follow a lot of SDR thought leaders because you wanna get better at your job. But once you leave the workforce and you're like not interested in product management or sales and marketing or technology or whatever, like it becomes less meaningful, all of the content. That's why I don't use the feed and instead like I turn on notifications for people whose content I think is good. And when I get a notification, that's the only push notification I have when I get it. I'm like, oh, I'll go see what they wrote. Whereas Twitter, I'll scroll the time. Because most content is public discourse. And Twitter's really good at showing all the most popular stuff. And so when my wife's like, oh my God, did you see this tweet? I'm like, I already know what you're gonna say. Yeah. All right. You know, people complain about the algorithm on Twitter. And of course it's not perfect, but I agree, like it's sort of, it's still pretty decent. Let me see, a couple of good questions here. Let me see, make sure I catch everything. Justin, you mentioned spending 30 minutes or more engaging assuming per day, is that per day? How do you spread it out? Is it- Yeah, I do that every morning. I try- Yeah, so you're just one spike. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, there's a couple of things you can do. You can engage for 30 to 60 minutes. 15 is fine. Again, these are all arbitrary numbers. I just, I'm picking out of a hat, just what I do. And the other thing you can do that's really neat is if you get a piece of content that flies, like you're like, oh, wow, this is really taking off. People are really enjoying this piece of content. At the 60 minute mark, I'll edit that content and I'll drop a link inside and it has no impact. It'll just keep growing and keep growing and keep growing. And suddenly your website traffic will just spike. And I highly recommend that versus just like dropping a link in is if you get a one that's just flying. wait to the 16 minute mark, edit it, drop your link in, and your website traffic will blow up. It's interesting. Is there a time limit until you can edit things on LinkedIn? No? Yeah. So you can't edit it. I can't edit a person four years ago. Interesting. That's good. Good to know. And the decay and impression in LinkedIn is different than Twitter. Like Twitter, basically, like if you turn on one of these detailed analytics things, you can see after 24 hours exactly, it stops slandering. In LinkedIn, I know, I think you said like it's longer. Like is there a number hover? much longer. So for example, I had a post the other day with an image from Twitter, and I think it was about, I don't remember what it was about, it's irrelevant. And I posted it, and at one hour, it was at like 600 and 200, 600 reactions and 200 comments of some sort. That was after like an hour, and then steadily grew, steadily grew. And then like a week later, it's at 7,400 engagements and like... 800 comments. I was like, oh wow, that's just growing and growing and growing. Really good content on LinkedIn grows for weeks, which is interesting. Wow. And, and it goes just because it keeps it like the algorithm keeps sending in the feed or is there some other thing happening like people are sharing or something like that? I don't know, but my guess is that Twitter is a daily platform. So I'm painting with a broad brush, but like most of us probably log into Twitter at some point during the day and like scroll the timeline, read the news, check, whatever, right? Versus LinkedIn is like a platform that lots of people might visit once a week. Even if they like LinkedIn, they're just like, oh, it's a professional platform for resumes. I don't really need to go there to consume information. And what happens is, and I know this because I watched the timeline to see when this happens, like a friend of mine will log in after not having logged in for a week. and my content will be at top because it has 3000 and something I'm assuming that thousands of people who log in once weekly get fed my piece of content because it, you know, I have a lot of followers and the content's doing well. So it's cool that it's always prominent versus like something recent, which they don't show. Makes sense. So I think there's a popular question and I think you have some experience with this, Justin. Like, what do you think about using LinkedIn as a creator when you already have a job? They are not just saying I'm an executive at a big four company and I feel my colleagues and former colleagues are judging the fact that I'm posting things that are not related to my company. Like is it strange to promote your own products if you're employed? Do you have any suggestions? And if I remember correctly, this was your case, right? Is that my light? Yeah. Yeah. I did one thing well and one thing poorly, which was when I decided I wanted, when I took the role as VP of Sales at Patient Pop, it was a very small company. It was five people. And when they were trying to get me to come on board, I said, one thing that I really wanna do over the next five years of my life is build a brand for myself. I thought I was gonna be known in the sales space where I was a former chief revenue officer. So that's who I used to be. And I wanted to be known in that space. So I set that expectation with my boss, my CEO, and said, I want to be known. So he helped me get on podcasts and things like that. When I started writing on LinkedIn, I went to him and said, Hey, I think there's a win-win for the company here. I'm gonna write content about sales and marketing and what we're doing here at Patient Pop. I'm gonna build my own brand. And I think this is gonna help us improve our recruiting because I think if I can get a lot of followers, you know, young salespeople will wanna come work for me. That was true. That worked very well. And I brought on someone on board who was a VP who had tons of experience on LinkedIn. And we just crushed hiring great people because people knew who we were. What I didn't do, and this is where it might be beneficial, is I didn't tell the people working for me, which was about 150 people, and that was a mistake. And so when you're an executive and you sit in an office and people don't know what you're doing, if anything goes poorly, comp plans wrong, bad day, they automatically assume that's because their boss is wasting time on LinkedIn. And so, you know. I would just, it'd be of benefit, I think. Expectations, expectation setting solves most problems in life. So like, if you have a job and you wanna talk about something different, I would have that conversation with your boss, have that conversation with your management team, have the conversation with people who work for you and get the buy-in that everyone understands why and what you're doing. Do you think it would have worked if you explained to the people who reported to you what you were doing or it was still a difficult thing to do? Yeah, I think I should have said, hey, Kevin and I are going to be writing on LinkedIn a lot. What we're trying to do is we're trying to get the patient pop brand in our cell, our own personal brands known really well. We want to make a really hard recruiting push for new salespeople, companies growing. We want to make sure that people know who we are and that there's a reason that people want to work here. So you're going to see us. on LinkedIn, on social media, but I want you to know that we're gonna spend 7.15 to eight o'clock every morning, Pacific time, before the workday, writing and engaging. And then during the workday, I'm gonna be here doing my own thing. If anyone has any questions or concerns, feel free to send me an email or knock on my door, but that's part of the outreach program that we're designing for our recruiting team. That's what I would have said, which is true. Makes sense, makes sense. Good, good, good, good, good. Let me see. Genevieve is asking, do you write long form content at all on LinkedIn or mostly cross-post from somewhere else? Presumably I imagine long form content here is like beyond the thousand. Can you do that? I remember LinkedIn used to have like a post feature like or article feature or something like that. Does that still exist? You can use articles, but they don't get a lot of impressions. I don't find them to be all that worthwhile. I use long form content on LinkedIn. as like 3000 characters. So often I'll write a long form piece of content. My thought is that you like, you earn the right to be long winded. That's what I think. I think if you're new, being valuable and succinct is helpful. I think as you become more well known and people enjoy your content more, I think they're willing to like, spend more time reading something long. But even like, a few of my friends write really long content. I'm like, I'm not reading this. Like I'm not, I don't have time to read this Bible post that they just put on LinkedIn. So that's just my own personal thing, but I usually keep mine at like 800, 600, 400 characters. Makes sense. And so what's the latest to post? Like do you use hashtags in your posts? Like do they matter? They probably do, but I don't speak with hashtags. So, I don't write with hashtags. I write very similar to how I speak. And, like, there's nothing more annoying than seeing hashtags mid-post. And I think hashtags, this is like an ego thing. So, pardon my ego for like 10 seconds. But I think at the end of a post, when you see hashtags, I always am like, that person is desperate for impressions or desperate to get seen. Personally, I want to come across as a little just writing. I don't want to like... position my content to be found using tricks like hashtags. Then again, I also like my own contents to take it with a grain of salt. I'm full of inconsistencies here, but I just don't like hashtags. Yeah. No, I agree. And even on Twitter, they seem very desperate. Yeah. And again, a bit of attention, but I don't think on Twitter, I don't think they almost matter at all. Like I've never, I don't know anyone discovering things to hashtags. I've never read some content with hashtags and been like this person is someone I should pay attention to. Exactly. Exactly. Let me see. I think I was asking, are you working on any other digital products? I am. I am. You are. It's been a real shit show because I just cannot seem to find the time to get it done. But I want to put together like a flagship product on just sole openership and just like, what does it mean to... just building on my business. And so I'm trying to work on it. It's going really poorly, but I've carved this Friday off to really spend a lot of time with some experience. So, thank you even more so for your time, Justin. So we're stealing from that opportunity. I appreciate it, I like this. Is it going to be video, text? Like if I may ask? Yeah, video. Video, awesome. I like, I feel like part of the reason that people buy- things. And this is another hunch and not based on data. This is based on a conversation I had with Jack Butcher a long time ago in Nashville, which was like, it feels sometimes like people don't get to, this is again, this is, it sounds egotistical and I don't mean for it to come across that way, but like, I don't get to meet my followers all that often. Like it's not like we go out and have a beer. Like I jump on a call like this, these are, these are few and far between. And so I feel like a course where it has video is an opportunity to almost meet one another. So I feel like if it's text-based, I think people would open that and be disappointed. That's how I feel. I've bought courses that I thought were going to be video and were text-based. I was like, oh, if I wanted a book, I'd just buy a book. I agree. My friend Hassan Osman says the same thing. When you have videos, like a ladder level of connection, probably live like this is even higher. Then sort of the recorded video is one step lower. Text is one step lower. Maybe audio is a bit better than text. So there's all these... We're just replicating human nature. And actually the ideal would be live in person, even more so, but that's not very scalable. Swati, I see how they stand, hello. Hey Daniel, thank you. Hey Justin, so my question is actually related to video only. I have seen that very few connections in my LinkedIn network have started creating content. with the video on LinkedIn and have not seen this before. This is a very recent trend. And I was trying to understand how, like what is your opinion on this new trend? A video content? I don't know, cause I don't create a lot of video content cause I don't love creating it. And so therefore I don't, but a very good friend of mine creates a lot of video content and does very, very. He runs a $20 million agency, which basically does all of its revenue through LinkedIn. His name is Chris Walker. He works for a company called Refine Labs. And it doesn't hurt that he's handsome, right? I think that that's always helpful. But like he jumps on camera and he basically walks through and dispels marketing myths every day. And his content does exceptionally well. I think video is an opportunity on LinkedIn. I think people who are able to produce good video, it doesn't have to be like super high quality, but I think if it's compelling, if it's almost like a YouTube short, like a lot of the things we're seeing there, I think there's a huge opportunity to win. I know Ross Plumerance, who's also known as like corporate bro, got a humor account about sales, creates a lot of fun entertaining videos and crushes it. I think it's untapped right now. Okay, yeah. You're welcome, thanks. So just a couple of more questions. Like Stephen is asking, what do you see most people struggling with when they're trying to grow on LinkedIn? Is it the problem with their content format? Is it lack of consistency? They're not original enough? Like what was the most common team you see people maybe shooting themselves in the foot? Yeah, a couple of different things. One is they... they don't focus on one thing. So like the number one question I get is, what would you do if you have lots of interests? I would pick one. It's easy to do it when you're you, Daniel, or me, we've been writing for a long time with people. Like if I wanted to write tomorrow about a hike I went on, which I've done before, like because people have been following me for a long time, I'll probably get some engagement. But if I came out of the gates and nobody knew who I was, I had no followers, I was like, Writing about sales one day and entrepreneurship the next day, and then hikes, and then my favorite pizza place, and then traveling, like, it becomes hard to understand why should someone follow this person, which is, I think, the first slide in the deck. That is a huge missed opportunity. I think the second thing that I see is people, they don't study how to write effectively. Writing is a skill. You can read about it, but the best way to get better is writing on a regular basis. And that's why if you look back a year or two years, you should look at your writing and you should cringe. I know I do. I think everybody should feel the same way about their own writing. It means you're getting better. The problem is if you pick a bunch of topics and you never stay consistent, and then you start writing and you're really bad at writing, what happens with those two things is most people quit. That's the biggest thing. It's hard to fail at LinkedIn if you just don't quit. Like it's almost like a marathon. Like the people who finish are the people who just kept running. Like it's, That for sure. And then maybe last is like hammering home that message. When I go to your profile, like, is it professional? Is it crisp? Do I understand who you are and what you're gonna write about? If you're like, I'm a guy who breaks down SEO for the creator's space and I write a simple SEO tip every single day, and then you show up every single day and you write a simple SEO tip every single day, it's hard to fail. It's just like, you're not going to get a lot of impressions and engagement for 90 to 180 days. Just keep going. Then it just like spikes all of a sudden. It's very interesting. Leonard, hi. Hey Leonard. Hi. I don't remember what I want to ask. Oh, okay. No, no, no. I'm nervous because I get to speak with Justin who I really like. Nervous. courses and I think the LinkedIn course is one of the best out there. I have to say that. Yeah, I have two questions. One of them might be regarding the follow and connect thing, because you know when you have the creator account, you have these two possibilities. And usually people will follow you and some of them will invite you to connect. Do you people that you know, I don't know. So this is the first question. And the second question, of course, is related. I don't know if, because you said that you had the job while becoming a content creator. If you don't wanna go on the solo Planeurship route, but maybe just enjoy writing or have it as a side hustle and so on, do you think that it's a... it's in any way an alarm signal or it's somehow something not very positive for recruiters? Hmm, that's a question. Yeah, I'll answer those. The first one is when I was getting started, I accepted a lot of connections. As I saw people looked interesting, I wanted to expand my connections. It's like connections and followers are different on LinkedIn. You connect with people and people can follow you without being your first degree connection. There's also a max of 30,000 connections. Why? I have no idea. Early on, I accepted connections because I wanted to build my network. I wanted more people to see my content. And I was a little discerning, but not super discerning. Today, I hit 30,000 just recently. I have 400,000 followers. Less than 10% of them are connections. So 30,000, I finally maxed out. But even leading up to that 30,000, I was very, in the last two years, like very, very discerning. One out of a hundred people I'd accept because like there's so many people that looked at first glance to be irrelevant to my business. So I would skip them. So that's the answer to that. The second question, I find it to be the opposite. Like as long as you're not being silly or foolish or mean or divisive, I think writing And showing your expertise every day on LinkedIn is the easiest way to get in front of recruiters, right? Like, sure, if you're writing about your favorite pizza every single day, like, it's not gonna really improve your chances. But like, if you want a job as a developer and every day on LinkedIn, you're sharing some development tip. I'm not a developer, so I can't think of what to write, but like, you're gonna get seen. And I think when people go through and read what you write, they're like, oh, this guy's competent. Like, I think... most people I know get jobs by creating content on LinkedIn. And I think that's not gonna change as it becomes more creator driven. So that's what I think. Good question. Michael, hello. Hey Michael. Hello, I had a question for you regarding LinkedIn. What if you are in a profession because you kind of ended up there. but you actually do something else and you prefer to do that. How do you make that transition? And for me, like I was director of marketing, so I know all sorts of SEO stuff, but I'm actually an artist, a painter. Cool. I don't quite see for me right now, I haven't quite figured out like how do I bridge that gap? So if you have any ideas regarding like shifting positions, does it work? Yeah, I think like, I mean, It feels like an easy one and I don't mean to trivialize it, but it just, it feels like, um, why not just go share your art? Like, why not just go write about the things that you enjoy every day? Like, unless your company would find that to be extremely against guidelines or policy. Like, I got laid off, so I'm cool. Cool. Um, I mean, if that's what you want to write about, like, I think you can monetize anything. I'm under the, I think things are harder to monetize than others, but I'm under this firm belief that you can monetize almost anything. If that's what, by the way, what your intention is. But like, if you want to write about art, go write about art. Like, I mean, taking someone like Jack Butcher, for example, it brought up earlier in the conversation, like sure, his art is very unique and interesting and different, but like he went from being a guy who talked about building online businesses when I met him to being someone who talks only about digital art. And I think the cool thing about LinkedIn is it's pretty easy to find people who are interested in the same things you're interested in just through simple Boolean searches that you can use Boolean search on LinkedIn. You can go find a bunch of people using Spark Toro or something like that. But like Aaron Alto is a guy who likes to sketch. He was doing that on Twitter and now he came over to LinkedIn is getting a lot of engagement on his sketch work. I think the easiest thing and maybe I misunderstood the question was like. if that's your obsession or something you're super passionate about, there's no downside other than it takes time away from- Yeah, it just struck me as not being, like it's so business focused that it wasn't that type of thing. Whereas like Instagram is not as an example. I will, I'll tell you this, this very true story. I'm on a platform called Kajabi. And so I get to meet other Kajabi creators. I recently met a woman doing 200 grand a year talking about how to make balloon animals. And LinkedIn is a platform that she's part of. So like there is a really interesting opportunity. It's just like, can you be the guy in that thing that everyone turns to? And like LinkedIn is not just professional anymore. It's people consuming content. Thank you. Yeah, of course. Great question. Interesting, interesting. Couple of questions, Justin, before we wrap up. Let me see. When you chose to focus on the one thing, how did you decide to focus on that thing? Did you use any signals or was it more a gut feel? Yeah, great question. The true story is, for those of you who don't know my story, this isn't like a founder story that I made up to because it sounds good, this is what truly happened. I burned out really hard in 2018 at my job. I had been in tech for 10 years. I was an executive for five of those. Very stressful being a sales executive. You're on the shopping block every... every quarter as the chief revenue officer. And I burned out really bad and had a really massive panic attack. And 911, all this stuff. This is what got me into being a creator. And I resigned from work after having this panic attack on December 16th of 2018. And my bosses asked me to stay. I ultimately ended up staying until August. So I stayed another eight or nine months. And I knew I was gone on August 1st. And so I was like, I have to make money and I don't know how to make money on the internet. So I started talking about what I knew, which was how to build sales teams, how I built the sales team at Patient Pop, how I grew the SDR team, how I grew revenue, how we improved bookings, how we did better pitches, like all the things I could think about that I had learned in five years. That's how I started. And I built this following of about 25,000 people, mostly CEOs who are interested in getting their sales teams to perform better and getting their go-to-market strategies to be more effective. So when I put my job on August 1st, I had been writing for eight months about this particular topic, because I was like, I hope someone either hires me, wants to bring me on as a consultant, or will pay me to give them advice. And so... That worked out really well and I built a pipeline of tons of revenue. So when I left my job on August 1st, I signed my first four clients that first day. And I became a consultant, which is like a very common thing to do when you're burned out. Over the course of time, I continued to grow on LinkedIn, sharing sales advice. And then I went into my DMS. Again, I've told the story, but it's true story. It's not just like something I made up. Went into my DMS and all the questions, 90 percent of them. weren't like, how do you build a sales team? They were all like, how are you growing so fast on LinkedIn? How did you learn to write so well? Well, what books did you read? And I was like, oh, this is interesting. So I started writing about how to use LinkedIn. And then that took off. And then people wrote to me and said, how'd you make your course? How are you making money? So I started to write about that stuff. And it's just been like one slow pivot after another based on what- people tell me they want to hear from me. And that's it. Very interesting, Justin. Actually, it's very similar to what I did. I started using Twitter, talking about programming topics. And then I released a book about programming. And then I started sharing about the performance of that book. And people were interested, like, how did you find customers? And I was telling them how I grew my audience. And then people wanted to know more about that. And one thing led to another. It's interesting because I think what we write about should be somewhat still at an intersection what people want to hear about and what we like talking about, what we have credibility on. I mean, I could probably start talking about health and fitness tomorrow, but probably nobody cares because there isn't that, I don't have the credibility. There isn't a reason for anyone to listen to me about that. But if people are asking, it's a very good sign. So basically I think the answer is like, you didn't choose intentionally the thing you're talking about right now, you evolved into it. So you did change, right? It's not, you weren't completely legit because if you were completely legit, like you would have stuck with talking about sales teams, right? But you actually evolved gradually. And I didn't have to talk about LinkedIn or courses or online business or solo entrepreneurship. Like as more people asked me about that, I had the option. And I was like, am I interested in this? And I was, my interest in sales and sales teams and board meetings, that was all waning, right? Yeah. And so it felt more like a chore. So I was happy to dive into something new and interesting that I was obsessed with. And, you know, I think over the course of the next 12 to 24 months, my, what I write about might change even more. Change. Yeah. Well, spotlight shift, you know, this is, this is great to hear because I agree. Like it seems somewhat controversial, but I think it's probably the best way to look at things because the same thing happened to me as well. I was talking about programming in 2019 and AWS. and I lost interest in that stuff. I wasn't thinking about it anymore. So, you know, what was, I was interested in what, what I was doing was very different and I moved. It's easier to talk about something you're living in the present, right? Rather than something from the past. I haven't run a sales team in five years. So- Exactly, right? Yeah. I'm on my podcast talking about sales. I'm like, you don't want me on there. I don't know what I'm talking about. Yeah. I'm that one. Yeah. So Justin, maybe we'll end with this question. If you were to choose one, would it be Twitter or LinkedIn and why? Uh, I mean, LinkedIn has been better to me for business from a business perspective. Uh, I think I can build a seven figure business through LinkedIn. If you took my Twitter away, um, I don't think that the opposite is true. Um, I like Twitter more. I like using Twitter more as a consumer. Uh, but LinkedIn as a platform for publishing has been really good to me. And I don't know, it can be cringy, but it's really great place to do business. Sounds good. Yeah, hope this inspires a few people and probably it inspired me as well to give it another shot. So, well, thank you, Justin. Thanks all for your time and for answering all the questions. Maybe you can look up, you know, right on time, unless anyone has any other questions. But I think we caught up with a bit much everything. Cool. So yeah, thank you everyone. Thank you, Justin. Thanks again. Thanks everyone. Great to see you guys. See you. Bye bye. Bye.